# Using QUOR'em

This is the general user guide for those who want to access data contained in a QUOR'em database, or input or edit existing data.

[TOC]

## Data Organization

The following is a high-level description of how data is organized in a QUOR'em database.

Briefly, each Investigation is comprised of many Samples. These Samples may be processed with a Protocol, the result of which is a BiologicalReplicate. If this BiologicalReplicate produces data that is used in a computational analysis (e.g., DNA sequence data), then it may be linked to a PipelineResult that was generated by some described computational Pipeline.

Investigations can be immediately after an instance is deployed. Once an Investigation exists, a Sample can be attached to that Investigation.

Next, your team must define and set up your wet-lab Protocols. This is simply a series of step names, methods, and parameter names and values and can be as fine- or coarse-grained as needed and updated as appropriate. Once Protocols have been defined, BiologicalReplicates can be added.

As an example, a sample could be a stool sample taken from Subject #72. That sample is subjected to Illumina sequencing of a 16S V6-V8 region. The results of this protocol acting on this sample (e.g., the DNA sequences, run information metadata, etc.) are considered a bioligical replicate of that protocol on that sample.

Finally, Pipelines must be defined. These are descriptions of the computational pipelines that are the "default" for the type of data generated by a given BiologicalReplicate. Right now, this exclusively means a spreadsheet that defines each of the plugins, actions, and parameters used to generate a bunch of results with QIIME2. Helpfully, the `q2_extractor` companion has a module to automatically produce this spreadsheet from a QIIME2 project directory!

With these definitions in your QUOR'em database, QIIME2 artifacts can be dropped into the database and will be associated with the correct investigation, samples, replicates, protocols, and pipelines without any additional user input! User intervention is only required if a Sample was produced by a modified Protocol.

